In this video, you will learn to
describe the methodologies used
in penetration testing,
including the following.
Open Source Security Testing Methodology,
National Institute of Standards and
Technology Guidelines on
network security testing.
Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council,
Information Technology Examination.
Information System Security
Assessment Framework.
>> Let' talk about, now,
pen testing methodologies.
So when we talk about
pentest methodologies,
we're talking about a process for
offensive cyber security consultant,
to a perform a series of actions in
order to try to exploit a system.
But the exploitation process actually is
one of the key parts of the methodology.
It's something that will give you a clear
understanding of how the company,
how you're victim, or your client,
is dealing with the cyber security war.
You're still in with the cyber security
defenses and monitory processes.
So let's understand first a couple of
methodologies that are on the public
knowledge, or are in the environment for
you to understand and follow.
So we have the OSSTMM methodology,
the Open Source Security
Testing Methodology Manual.
Then we have the NIST, a methodology for
a network security testing.
There is another one called the Federal
Financial Institution Examination Council
for Information Technology Examination.
And then we have the ISSAF, Information
System Security Assessment Framework.
There is another pentest
methodology called a PTES.
Actually if we go here on Google
to PTES Technical Guidelines,
the actual URL is
www.pentest-standard.org.
If you go here,
you will see a lot of things,
you will see a lot of information from
the pen testing methodology perspective.
But in order for
you to be able to read this methodology,
actually is one of the simplest
methodology out there, it's simple.
Just understand that here
you will have the phases.
So each of these is a phase
that you will need to explore,
you will need to perform
on your pen test project.
So, for example,
when you are in the Intelligence Gathering
process, you can click here.
And you will have a lot
of things to perform,
in order to you get enough
knowledge from your target.
So, in the real world,
if you work as a pen tester,
as an ethical hacker, the first step and
the most important step that you could do
is the information gathering process,
the enumeration process.
Understand all the attack surface from
your client, understand all the possible
exploits, all the older possible systems
that you could exploit on your target.
So, normally, there is a misconception
because, in some occasions,
the people things that a pen tester
will just go and open something called
metasploit and start are working with
comments and exploits and that's all.
I mean, that's not the real world,
on the real world,
you will need to get a lot of
information from your target.
A lot of enumeration, a lot of
information gathering from your target in
order to proceed with the other phases.
Then when you have enough information,
you could go and
start your Threat Modeling process.
So you have all the information for
your target, now what?
Now you need to understand
what will be your roadmap,
sorry, in order for you to exploit or
attack your target.
Here is just some examples,
or checklists, or
things that you could
start doing on your end.
In order to understand which
part of the organization,
which part of the network
that you already understand.
Because you already performed
the information gathering process, but
you'll start exploring more
deeply in the next step.
The next step, actually,
is the Vulnerability Analysis.
In some occasions, as a pen testers,
we use vulnerability scanners,
the Vulnerability Assessment Tools.
For understanding a little bit better,
which vulnerabilities are more likely
to be exploitable in the system.
So, for example, if we have something on
port 80, and we already know that that
thing on port 80 is a web page running on
Apache Server Version 2.6, for example.
One of the things that we could do
is try to perform an exploration
regarding vulnerabilities that will
affect that version of Apache Server.
So we could use
a Vulnerability Assessment Tool,
we could use something called,
for example, OpenVAS.
We can use Qualys,
we can use Nessus, there is a lot of
Vulnerability Assessment Tools over there.
But one of the things that also it's
important for you to understand,
you could also explore the vulnerabilities
using a manual process.
So one of the things that you
could do is just go to Google.
And if you have the version of the system,
just go and
type exploit apache 2.4, for example.
And you will have a lot of information
about vulnerabilities that will
affect that specific
version of Apache Server.
And you could start trying to exploit
those vulnerabilities in the next step.
The next step, actually,
is the Exploitation step.
So when you are in the Exploitation,
you will need, first of all,
to understand that you as a pen tester,
or as an ethical hacker.
You cannot, you cannot,
again, you cannot exploit any system if
you don't have the permission to do that.
You need to coordinate with your client,
you need to coordinate with your victim
[LAUGH] the time frame, time windows,
in order to perform the exploit
of the systems, why?
Because what happen if
you exploit something,
if you exploit the Apache web server
that we were talking about minutes ago.
In a time where your victim,
your client is performing some
important actions on the Web page.
For example, in a high season of sales for
that client that will
take over the Internet.
So, if you exploit the system and you,
not just get access into the system,
but you also broke the system because
you perform a denial of service attack.
You probably will have problems because
the normal operation of
the client it's affected for you.
So that's an important part for
any pen tester to understand.
Coordination, talk with your client,
operation,
try to coordinate all the operations from
the Exploitation phase is a key part.
But, again, on this PTES or
Pen Test Standard methodology that we're
seeing here, there is a lot of things
that you need to have in mind.
So, for example,
if you want to send a payload with
a reverse connection to your system.
Probably you'll need to deal with
something called evasion or obfuscation,
to try to avoid antivirus detection,
for example.
Or if you want to encrypt your payload or
your attack,
you could start doing something
that will encrypt your connection.
For example,
using NetGuard with encryption.
Or using other tools that are not
necessarily encrypted, but
will use encryption portal or
use ports that are open on the system.
And, lastly, we have
the Post Exploitation and Reporting.
Again, the Post Exploitation is what
happened when you already have access
to the system.
How could you maintain the access,
how could you start doing some pivoting?
In other words, how could you start
jumping from computer to computer?
Or how could you start doing something
that we call privilege escalation?
And the most important part here,
Reporting.
How could you show your client,
how do you perform
each of the steps of the project,
and gain access to the system.